>> Welcome to Presenting User Data
with Table Views and Browsers.
My name is Corbin Dunn and I'm a Cocoa Software Engineer.
So what is this talk about?
Well, it's an advanced talk focused on a sample code
application that we created called the AnimatedTableView.
And we expect you to have a firm knowledge of Cocoa
and an understanding of how to work with typical things
like data sources, delegates, work with
NSWindow, OutlineViews, TableViews.
Hopefully, you know how to create
custom cells, do drawing, and whatnot.
Most of this code is geared towards Snow Leopard,
but a lot of the concepts will work on Leopard
and although it is an advanced talk, a lot of the concepts
you can take and just kind of run with and extract stuff
from the demo and figure it out
yourselves so it is good for beginners too.
So what are we going to talk about?
Well, we're going to say how to subclass and enhance
NSTableView, how to batch load a whole bunch of information
like images, dynamically as is shown in the table view.
How to add subviews to table view rows to do
things which you normally can't do in a cell.
How to do a custom cell editor that edits
outside the normal tracking view loop.
We're going to talk about how to do some custom
animations such as animating from a table view
over to another image view inside of the same
window, also, how to do a pop-up window type
of animation in the custom cell field editor.
Finally, we're going to discuss some new Snow
Leopard-only API working with NSBrowsers,
and discussing column previews
and header previews with them.
So, the focus of the talk is around
this AnimatedTableView sample code.
I encourage you to download it.
It will be available on developer.apple.com.
You can go on the attendee website and find Session 110.
You can see it associated with it.
I encourage you to download it after the
session, play with it, modify it, reuse the code.
So let's take a look at that demo app so we
can kind of know what we're talking about.
So I'm going to launch the application.
And what we see here is, on the left we have a regular
table view or subclass table view, have some group rows.
It has an image, little color in it, and a title.
And as we scroll through, we're batch loading images
and using NSView to do the animation while it's loading.
If I click on a particular row, we do an animation from the
row in the table view over to another regular NSImageView.
We also animate some other properties like the
opacity fades out and the background color fades.
You can click on a particular color
and we do a little pop-up,
allowing you to select the particular
color for the background color.
So we're going to display or talk about how to create
that and how to create an editor for your complex cell.
You can also double-click on a
particular image and we're going
to pop-up another window which shows a custom NSBrowser.
We can modify properties of this by applying core
image filters such as sepia tone and pixelate.
And up at the top are our little previews such
as a column preview and also a regular preview.
We're going to talk about how to use
new Snow Leopard API to create that.
Finally, once you actually have a resulting image,
we're going to show how you can go ahead and set it
as the desktop wallpaper, so you
can easily change the wallpaper.
So, let's understand how this demo
application is created and take a quick look
at the class hierarchy of our model for the application.
What we have is we have a base subclass
in NSObject called an ATDesktopEntity.
It has a file URL and a title.
But the real work is done in a subclass of it.
We have a subclass that's going to hold an
array of the children for a particular folder.
So, we have ATDesktopFolderEntity and
that represents the whole folder in a--
everything in a particular group of images.
Each particular item in the row is going to
be represented by an ATDesktopImageEntity.
This has additional other properties like a thumbnail
image, the regular image, whether there's loading or not
and the fill color that we're going
to use for the desktop background.
Now, for our views, here's a screenshot
of that sample application.
So we have a custom in this table view subclass
and it's called the ATDynamicTableView.
Notice that I use a custom prefix here because we want to
make it sort of like a framework where we can easily reuse
that code and we recommend using custom prefixes for your
frameworks and in this one I chose a two-letter prefix AT.
In that way it won't conflict with any
of our standard Apple-provided ones.
A three-letter prefix is also good to use too.
So inside that table view, it's going to keep track
of other subviews for things like this little spinner.
The actual other rows are going to just be a regular cell.
It's a custom NSTextField subclass
called the ATImageTextCell
and that normal text field cell is
going to do the normal type of drawing.
The rest, the bits, we're actually
going to delegate out to other cells.
So inside this cell, we're going to use subcells to
draw the image within NSImageCell and we're going
to have another custom cell subclass called
the ATColorCell that draws the color.
So it's got little color swatch in the color name.
All these color names are really just
standard things I got from the NS color list.
I'm just printing them out directly, so
it's something that we provide an app kit
that you can iterate through for finding standard colors.
Now, this pop-up window is going
to be a custom NSWindow subclass.
We're going to call it the ATPopupWindow.
The reason we subclass in this window mainly is
because we want to overwrite it can become key windows
so you can interact with the keyboard and have the focus
go in the table view for selecting a particular row.
But since we're also subclassing there, it's another
good place to put that pop-up code animation.
So we'll show how to add that type of code in.
Inside of it we're using that same cell, the
ATColorCell, to do the actual drawing of the color.
Of course, in model view controller design,
we have a controller that hooks everything
together, so we'll have an ATContentController.
This is the main controller for the application.
And it links that model over to the views.
In addition, when I double-click on the image on
the right, that's how the browser window came up.
We're going to use another controller, an
ATFilterBrowserController that controls that browser,
and what it does is we provide a sourceImage for it
and let the user choose particular pass in the browser
and it generates a target image called the filteredImage
with a whole bunch of core image filters applied to it
that we can then get back out of this controller.
Finally, the purpose of the demo app is
just to change your desktop wallpaper,
so down there at the bottom we have
that little change of wallpaper button.
So, how do you do this?
Well, it's really easy to do on Snow Leopard.
We have this new Snow Leopard NSWorkspace
API, setDestkopImageURL,
forScreen with some options, and an error.
And we're going to pass in a few options or really one
option, like here are some of the ones you can provide.
You can change things like the
ImageScaling allow it to clip or not.
And the one that we fill in and care about
is the NSWorkspaceDesktopImageFillColorKey
so we can set the fill color behind the image.
Subclassing NSTableView, so the first thing
we're going to talk about is how to go ahead
and batch load your cell contents for
everything that you see in the table view
and only in that visibleRect of the table view.
Now, maybe you're thinking, well, why
don't we just use tableViewWillDisplayCell?
Isn't it the place where you're going
to be using for the cell drawing?
And that's a good idea but it's not a great place
to do the way voting of images and other things,
because that method is called more
times than you may normally expect.
We have to call it so we can get a fully prepared
cell to do multiple operations, not just drawing
but for other things too in a table view.
For instance, type selection.
What if you type that character Z in your table view?
We're going to have to try and find a match for that
particular row and the way that the table view does this,
it gets a fully prepared cell using
the preparedCellAtColumn:row.
Now, that has to call your willDisplayCell method.
So it may not actually be displaying that cell at that
time, so it's not really a good place to load images.
In addition, we also use it in other places like if you
double-click on a column, it will auto resize it to fit
and there's some other ones that we use it for too.
So batch loading of cell contents,
how are we going to do that?
We want to preload everything in
the visibleRect of a table view.
As you may be aware, there's actually a clip view that's
clipping out other contents that you can't see there.
What we want to do is we want to cache
an NSRange of just those visible rows.
So the range will have the range allocation
indicating where it starts at and arrange that length
for how many rows are actually there in the visibleRect.
We want to make this code really easy to reuse.
So we're going to subclass a table view and subclass its
delegate and provide more extensions to the delegate.
On Snow Leopard, we use formal protocols so we subclass the
NSTableView delegate and create ATDynamicTableViewDelegate.
That adds a new method, DynamicTableView,
changedVisibleRowsFromRange, toRange,
so that way things can be loaded dynamically as
they're needed for a particular visible range.
Notice here that I used the prefix DynamicTableView.
>> Again, you don't wanna conflict with standard app kit or
Apple-provided classes or delegate methods that we provide,
so you don't wanna use the standard prefix TableView,
because what if we introduced it later and it conflicts
with one that you happen to have the same name with?
So, how do we actually implement this in the cable view?
Well, we're gonna subclass that table view at an
NSRange ivar to keep track of the visibleRows.
And you can also see here in this little snippet
of the ATDynamicTableViewDelegate provide
as an override declaration of the one in NSTableView.
The best place do this batch loading
of cell contents as lazily as you can,
is to use a new Leopard API called viewWillDraw.
So, what you're going to do in viewWillDraw is you want
the superclass to do whatever work it was going to do.
And in this case, table view actually
doesn't-- delayed layout.
So, it's always important to call super
viewWillDraw whenever you override that method.
Now, we just grab the visibleRows and the visibleRect.
We figure out if the visibleRect is actually changing--
or sorry, if the visibleRows are actually changing.
So, if that row range is different,
then we can just tell a delegate,
a delegate the dynamicTableView change the visible rows
from some old range to a new range, really easy to do.
I'm glossing over some facts here which are actually
included in the demo such as you normally do a response
to a selector to make sure that the application delegate
response have a particular selector before calling it
See the app for the details of that.
So, what does our demo app do in this method, in
this changedVisibleRowsFrom a range to a range?
Well, we have our table contents,
array of everything in that table,
so we want to create a subarray of just what you're seeing.
So, we're going to store that in the observedVisibleItems.
So given that subarray, we can just
iterate through it and tell each
of our model objects that we want them to load their images.
In addition, if they haven't actually loaded
it yet, they're going to change at some point.
So, we're going to use KVO to add an observer for the
thumbnail image path on that particular model object.
Now if you're familiar with KVO, then looking at the outline
you may think, oh, you're going to be observing those items,
you have to stop observing them at some time, and
that's why we have the old visible items stored off.
So really, the first thing you would do here is you'll
iterate through and remove observer for that key path
of the thumbnail image first and then you'll do the
work on the previous slide that I just showed you.
So, the model is going to do all of the work
to actually do this loading of the image.
So, here is the loadImage method in our model objects.
What we're going to do here is we're going to use a
shared NSOperationQueue to do all the heavy lifting,
so all the work of asynchronously loading the images in
the background thread, and we're going to use blocks.
So the specific code highlighted here is the actual block
callback that will get called in the background thread.
Now, why are we using a background thread?
Well, we have this helper method, ATThumbnailImageFromImage
which actually takes your regular image and converts it--
creates a thumbnail image from it which
will potentially slow it can block,
and you don't want to stall your
UI to do that on the main thread.
So, that's why we do it in the background thread.
If you're doing it on a background
thread, you want to synchronize things.
So, we want to synchronize the accessing of the image in
the image loading variable so that they're always in sync
and that we don't do this twice and overstep things.
So, that's why we use @synchronized only in this method.
We also use it when we're actually going to assign the
variables, because remember this bit of code's helping
in the background thread during a
callback when the thread is doing its work.
The last thing this does is it assigns the thumbnail image.
Now, we're just using KVOs, so that's going to
send out a KVO notification when it changes.
As you remember from before, the controller's
watching for those KVO notifications,
so it's going to get an observed value
for key path of object with a context.
Now, these KVO notifications sent from the
background thread because that's where it was changed.
So, we only want to modify the UI on the main thread.
So, we will do a performSelectorOnMainThread
with the object of the model object that changed.
We don't care about waiting until it's finished.
But one thing we do care about is the modes.
We're going to pass in an array with the RunLoopCommonModes.
That way that updating the UI happen when normal run loop
operations are happening or a model run loop happens.
It's also good to use the modes of-- common run
loop modes may do a performSelectorOnMainThread
or just a regular performSelector on delay.
The actual work that will happen on
the main thread is what's really easy.
We just grab the row from our model or go from
our array to figure out what row it's going to be.
We call a new Snow Leopard API reloadDataForRowIndexes,
columnIndexes to just reload the contents of that cell.
Really, all it's doing is redisplaying it at this time.
So, if you're targeting Leopard, you
could easily do a setNeedsDisplayInRect
on just that cell that needs to redraw.
Let's move on and talk more about
how to add subviews to a table view,
now that we've talked about batch loading of cell contents.
Let's go back to the demo and take a look at that
again so we know exactly what we're talking about.
So again in the demo application, we
have a normal cell that does our--
or normal complex cell that does our
drawing of the image and everything else.
Cells are great because they're very fast for
performance, but you can't do certain things
like maintain certain state for animations.
So, we want to use an NSProgressIndicator to do this
animation on the left as the thumbnail images are loading.
So as I said, some problems that you have in table view,
well, no easy way to do animations and things that you want
that have animations that you can't
use because we don't have a cell
that does it, NSProgressIndicator, NSPathControl.
Path control has the cell but no way to do the animation
because the animation scored in the
view which maintains that state.
So, how are we going to do this?
Well, we want to have some really easy to use reusable code.
So, we're going to have a delegate method to do it.
We only want to show views in those visible
rects that we're actually are displaying.
It doesn't make sense to have views on screen
that you can't see or can't interact with.
We also want the table to manage everything
for us so that we don't have to do that work.
So, let's go ahead and extend that delegate
method or extend the delegate protocol
that we showed earlier will add a
method, dynamicTableView, viewForRow.
Now here, we're just going to have for the
demo purposes a simple one view per one row.
You could easily take this application and extend it
to have multiple views per column on multiple columns
for each individual row, or for simplicity
sake, the demo just has one view per one row.
The ATDynamicTableView subclass is going to
keep track of the views with a dictionary.
So we're going to add some more ivars on
MutableDictionary views in visibleRows,
and also Boolean to keep track of
when we have to update them or not.
Here is an example what the dictionary looks like.
So inside of it, there are going to be keys.
The keys are just NSNumbers where the number is
the row that maps over to the view for that row.
These first three rows don't actually have a view
so we're going to put NSNull null in the dictionary
to indicate that there is no view for it.
The other ones are going to have the view stored there.
Again, a great place to do this
lazy view edition is viewWillDraw.
This is the place that you want to add subviews, do
setNeedsDisplayInRects and other last minute work.
You don't want to do it in drawRect
or draw interior frame of a cell.
That's too late to do it.
The appropriate place is viewWillDraw.
So as before, the first thing that we would
do is we're going to update the visibleRows.
In addition, we'll also set a Boolean
whether or not the views need update.
So, obviously we need to update the views
whenever those visibleRows are changing.
So, once they do need updating, but we want to
remove visibleRows which are no longer visible.
So, it's really easy to do that.
We create index set with the old
visibleRows, subtract any that are still visible
and that gives us the resulting index
set of what's no longer on screen.
We can just iterate through that index set.
So, we'll just iterate through each
row in index set and create an NSNumber
for that row, see if it's in our dictionary.
If it is, we remove it from the super view and remove it
from our dictionary, so that view storage is just gone.
Now, the code to actually add in the views is really easy.
We iterate through all the visibleRows,
create a key for, again,
that row and access it to see if a view is already there.
If it's not, we ask the delegate.
Hey, dynamicTableView or viewForRow, give me a row
back, or sorry, give me a view back for that row.
And if it did give me a view back, we're going to
add as a subview and store it on our dictionary.
If it didn't, we don't want to call the delegate back
again and again, so we're just going to use an NSNull
and null place holder so we don't
call it back again and again.
And of course, you can't put nil into a dictionary, so
that's one of the reasons why we use null as a place holder.
>> So, other key places that you actually want to
do some updating of the viewsNeedUpdate variable.
Things like reloadData, noteHeightOfRowsWithIndexesChanged,
and another in new Snow Leopard API,
reloadDataForRowIndexes, columnIndexes.
That way, you know when it needs to be updated.
So, what does the actual delegate do for this?
Well back to that sample application, it's going to
implement in its controller, dynamicTableView, viewForRow.
And what it wants to create is a progress
indicator for all its model objects
which don't have an image or a thumbnail image loaded yet.
So we grab the model object for that row, see if we
actually don't have the thumbnail image created yet.
If we don't, we're going to alloc init a progress indictor
for it, and I'm going to snip out and ignore some code
where it's actually going to set the
properties for the progress indicator.
Now, we want to place it at the
right location within that cell.
So, we're going to grab the frame
for the cell of that column row
and just place the progress indicator's
frame right in the center of that.
You could place it wherever you want if it's some other type
of view or some position that you want that's not centered.
This is just left up to the delegate for
that purpose because the table doesn't know
where you'd want that view inside the cell.
So, we just talked about adding subviews to a table view.
Let's move on a little bit and talk about
creating custom cell editors for our table view.
Again, let's take a look at the demo so we
can understand fully what we're talking about.
So in the demo application, when you click on one of
these particular colors, we do a neat little pop-up window
and it allows you to select a particular
color, and it changes that color in the cell.
Of course, the cell has multiple values in it.
You could potentially edit the value here and you could
potentially change a different color in the same cell.
So, we have multiple values that
we want to edit in one single cell.
So, that begs the question, how do you change
those multiple values in one particular cell?
The normal object value is just going to be
the title that you see there for the cell,
but this particular cell has multiple
values like the fill color.
You could also imagine making the image changeable too.
How do we change that value and somehow
tell the delegate or data source
that this cell had one particular different
value than normal object value that changed?
And, how do you actually edit that cell outside
of normal tracking, but what is normal tracking?
Normally when you're editing a cell like a button
or a slider or something else in a table view,
you click and you hold your mouse down in it.
The cell tracks completely as you
are holding down that mouse
until you let it go, and then the object value changes.
But what we're doing here is we're going to actually
change that value outside that normal mouse tracking loop.
So how do we do that and what's a good way to do it?
So how do we solve these problems?
Well, we want the cell to just talk to the
table and tell it when it needs to do things.
So we'll extend our ATDynamicTableView and add
a couple more methods for the cell to call.
This property or these methods here
are willStartEditingProperty forCell,
didEndEditingProperty forCell successfully, but
the key thing here is that the cell is going
to tell the table view what property
it's going to be editing.
That way, the table view can deal with
multiple properties from a single cell.
So, how is this going to work?
We have this one cell here.
You click on it and it is going to say to the
table view, hey, we're editing the fill color.
And it's going to do it by saying, tableView
willStartEditingProperty:@"fillColor" forCell:self.
What does the table have to do in this case?
Well, the table view needs to save off the editing
cell, save off the editing row, and column.
Now, why is it going to do that?
Here is a snippet of the header where it's got the
extra ivars for the row and the column and the cell.
We override preparedCellAtRow column--
or sorry, preparedCellAtColumn row.
And if that editing row is the
one that we are actually editing,
we want to return that same cell as being edited right then.
That way, you could have something which is dynamically
changing the properties of that single cell outside
of its normal tracking loop and it's constantly
reflecting and updating the values right then live.
So if that is the particular row column
that we want to know, we just return
or retain auto-release version of that cell.
The cell is actually going to do its editing
of its property with its own controller.
So we created an AT color table controller inside
the demo app that edits cell color properties.
So, all the controller does is it completely
abstractly pops up a particular color picker thing
around custom one at a particular location.
The user can then go ahead and change
the actual selected color to something.
The controller is watching for that color to change.
After that color does change, the controller
can then go ahead and tell whose watching
or using the controller, in this case it's the cell.
So the cell knows that its color went and changed.
So, now the cell can just tell the table view, "Hey,
I'm done editing the fill color with a tableView--
didEndEditingProperty:@"fillColor"
forCell:self successfully:YES.
So, you can imagine other places in the demo code.
We tell it successfully no when you hit Escape
or clicked away from that particular pop-up.
The table view itself now needs to update the data source.
So normally you have a delegate method,
tableView:setObjectValue:forTableColumn:row.
We're going to extend that delegate method and
have an implementation that's very similar,
dynamic tableView:setObjectValue:forTableColumn:row
property.
So, we can tell the table view when its updating
one particular property in a multi-valued cell,
Now the controller, here's the implementation of
that method, and what it's going to do is it's going
to grab its model object and see what's property changed.
So, if the fill color changed, it's going to go ahead
and update its fill color model object property.
So, we just talked about some custom
cell editors inside table view.
Now, let's go ahead and talk about
some cool custom animations
that you can do and how to actually go and do them.
So, how do you actually animate from a table view?
Again, let's take a look at the
demo to see exactly how it's done.
So inside of the demo application, the animation we're
talking about is when you click on a particular row,
we're animating several things at the same time here.
I can slow down with the Shift key, and first
of all, we're animating clearly the image
from the table view to the image on the right.
But also look at the background color above.
We're fading from one background color to another and at
the same time, the image that was there has an opacity fade
or an alpha-value fade that's going out at the same time.
So, those are the animations we're going to talk about.
So, how are we going to do this?
We're going to use an overlay window that
starts at that location in the table view
with an image-- the same image as what we're displaying.
We're then going to just use the animator or proxy object to
animate that windows frame from one location to the other,
and at the same time, we can animate the
opacity or the alpha-value out of the image
and also animate the background
color from one color to another.
So, that begs the question why
are you using an overlay window?
On Leopard, we support views where you can have
one sibling view that overlaps another sibling view
if it's got a higher Z-order in the view hierarchy.
So, you could have just have one view that overlaps and
moves around from one to the other and that's a great way
to do it and it works really well in those cases.
But in this case here, we want to do that opacity and
fade and background color animation and it's really easy
to do those animations on that
side view with core animation,
we can just animate the alpha-value really easily.
So, we want to do setWantsLayer:YES, so that
we can actually do that type of animation.
Now the table view on the other side, well,
it's not gonna be a layer back table view
because it doesn't need to be and then there's a problem.
How do you have a nonlayer back table view work with a layer
back view and have one sibling view that overlaps them.
That actually won't work because the
view layers aren't quite the same.
So, that's a problem which we're trying to solve
and why we're using overlay window to do it.
So, how do we actually go ahead and
create an overlay window that does it?
Well, it's really easy to do.
We're just creating using alloc init
with a-- to create a simple NSWindow.
>> The key things I'm highlighting here,
we want the window to not have a border.
So NSBorderLessWindowMask is passed to the styleMask.
We don't want it to be opaque and we want
to have a background color of a clear color,
so that way anything beyond the window's
contents are just completely invisible
and you can't see them or click on them.
The main contents for the window is just regular image view
that has the same contents as the
starting image of the thumbnail.
So really, the work is just figuring out how to
move this window from one location to another.
We have that custom cell there and we're
going to create a special method to figure
out where we're going to start the animation from.
And we're going to call it screenImageRect
for a particular row.
We can create a completely prepared
cell for the particular row column
and given that, we can find the frame of the whole cell.
Once we know the frame of the whole cell, we can have
the cell tell us the imageRect for particular bounds
and that gives us the cellImageFrame
within that overall cell frame.
We can then just convert to the rect
coordinate system for the window.
So we do a convertRect to the View and convertBaseToScreen
to get the screen coordinates for a particular rect,
which is the appropriate rect for the window.
Now how do we set up the animation?
Well the main thing is that we want
the animations to remain in sync.
So we bring that window forward and we
create a grouping for animation context.
We set properties that we want in animation
like the duration then we just use the animator
proxy object to do the animation for us.
So we do things like the frame window
animation, the alpha-value fadeout,
and the background color changing from one color to another.
Now there's a problem here is if
you are using a normal NSAnimation,
there's a delegate method to know when things finished.
Or if you're using CoreAnimation animation
similarly, there's a delegate to know when it's done.
So how do we know when these animator proxy ones are done?
Well there are a couple of ways to do it, one easy way is
to use an NSTimer to figure out after that work is done
to actually do a particular cleanup work
like remove that window from things.
You could also do a performSelector after delay
with an appropriate delay, but for this purposes,
in the demo app it was easy to use a timer so we could
actually cancel, rewind it and control it a little better.
So when the timer is finished, meaning the animation is
done, we can do some cleanup like we can set the final image
in that big image view, set the alpha back to 1.0.
And then we can force the window to display so that way it's
completely displayed before we remove our animation window
actually out and disappear.
This way everything moves and it's
smooth and you don't get any flicker.
So custom animations, how do you do
the pop-up window-type animation?
We just finished talking about the animating
from a table view to another image view.
And let's take a look at that pop-up animation again so we
are all on the same page and know what we're talking about.
So now the thing we want to talk
about is this little pop-up animation.
So how do we create, oops, a pop-up window like that?
[ Pause ]
>> So the first thing we are going to do is we are
going to cache the contentView as an NSBitmapImageRep.
So given that content view there we are
going to, again this is an NSWindow subclass,
we are going to grab the content
view, save it off for later.
And then take our visible rect, what we're seeing
and create a BitmapImageRep for that display rect
and then cache the contents of the view, the table
view that we're seeing there, into an NSBitmapImageRep.
After we have that we can replace the
contentView with a layer-backed view,
so it's just going to have no contents at that point.
The way we are doing that is just a regular NSView
which has setWantsLayer:YES as the content view.
Inside of that we can add a child
layer to actually do the animation,
so we are just going to add a regular
CALayer that's a sublayer of it.
That's going to be the thing that actually
is animated within that content view.
So the code for that is we just create a regular CALayer
layer, set a bunch of properties that we want on it.
But the key property for these purposes
is we're taking that BitmapImageRep,
grabbing the CGImage from it and
saying that as the contents.
So that way that layer has an image for the
view, which we want to actually see and animate.
We take it and we shrink the view down with a transform.
So there's a helper method we wrote that
creates the transform for a particular scale.
So we start at a really small scale
and then we just add as a sublayer.
So we are starting at a really small scale
and we want to use CoreAnimation to animate.
That layer is transformed to the bigger size.
So again, it's great to have a helper method that does this,
so we have a method called addAnimationToScale
for a particular duration.
So we create a basic CAAnimation
animation to do this for us.
We set the fromValue to be our current transform, so it's
going to be that current small transform that we created.
Set some properties like the duration and delegate, and
I'll explain why we set ourselves to delegate in a second.
Then on the layer itself, we set its final
size to the final scale for that animation.
In that way if you end an animation, the layer
size is the ending size that we want it to be.
Then we go ahead and add that animation to the layer,
so the layer is going to do the animation for us.
Now we want to create that pop-up effect, so
how can we make a particular pop-up effect?
Well we can take those animations and
chain from one animation to another.
So inside of animationDidStop finished, we're going
to get this callback when the animation is done,
because we are the CAAnimation's delegate.
So we can just keep track, well if we are
actually doing a growing we can go ahead
and say well we're not growing
anymore, we're going to be shrinking.
And then we can add an animation to the particular shrink
scale that we want with a particular shrink duration.
Then when that animation is done we can say
well if we were shrinking we are going grow back
to our original 1.0
scale and add an animation for that.
Finally, after they're all done we want to do some
cleanup, so we'll have a cleanup and restore views method.
So in the cleanup method we want to
restore that original content view
so you have the original table to actually interact with.
It's really easy to do cleanup.
So inside the cleanup we're going to disable some screen
updates and restore things like the original content view,
release some of the animation views
and remove it from the super view.
And some other minor details which you can
look at the demo app to see what we do.
But this makes it restore it without any flicker.
So now that I've discussed a bunch
of things about table views,
I'm going to hand it over to my colleague
Raleigh Ledet to talk about Custom NSBrowser API.
>> That was great.
So we have some new API in Snow Leopard for NSBrowsers that
will hopefully make your life a lot easier and allow you
to do some really nice nifty neat new things.
So Corbin showed you a whole bunch of stuff with table views
and how to add some custom cell
editors and do some animations.
And we're going to focus on NSBrowser and we're
going to focus on some new Snow Leopard API.
Let's get a refresher.
We're going to go back to the demo station
and show you that portion, here we are.
So here's our sample application and we'll
find us a nice image here, let's see,
here we go, wait for the fish to come up.
We double-click on the fish and we'll bring up our browser
and we'll pull up three columns so we can see that.
So we have here a header column, so this is
our sourceImage so these controls are disabled.
And we'll go ahead and do a hue adjust so we can
change the color because I like blue, here we go.
And then we'll go ahead and add a blur onto
this and soften it up just a little bit.
And now you see over here a preview column, and we
can hit the Apply Filter button, and it goes back
and we can now set this as our wallpaper and that all works.
So we're going to show you how to
do those header columns in browser
and how to do those preview columns
using some of the new API.
[ Pause ]
>> So the new API is item based,
so we are going to cover that
and we'll cover the custom headers and the preview headers.
So the new API is very similar to the
API that already exists in NSOutlineView.
It's an item-based API as well.
We've made one enhancement in that the items
don't have to be unique for the new NSBrowser.
They still have to be unique for
NSOutlineView but they don't have to be unique,
so you can have the same item in multiple columns.
That works out really nicely.
The implementation no longer uses NSMatrix, so if you--
in the old version you would have to push the content you
wanted onto the matrix, matrices or override willDisplayCell
and put all the content there and keep track of all that.
So now it's set up more like a data source
and we'll just query for the information,
which means that the old matrix API will
no longer work unless you are continuing
to use that old code and that old method.
>> So you can't mix and match the new API and the old API.
The old API is still there for backwards binary
compatibility and the header view in the preview columns
that we're going to talk about only work with the new API.
So there's some existing API that still works no matter
which mode you're using, the matrix or the item-based mode,
so you can still set your class cells, you can have a
custom cell and you could still override willDisplayCell
and you can make custom additions to your cell that way.
So, we're going to talk about the new API in relation
to how we implemented it for this demo application.
So we're going to look at our class
hierarchy of application.
That whole table view is controlled by a
window controller that loads that from a NIB
and that's our custom ATFilterBrowserController.
It has a sourceImage and the filteredImage that
Corbin had mentioned earlier and it contains an AT,
a root AT filter item and an AT filter
item has each children and that's all
of your different children for your columns as you go along.
Each filter item has an input source
and some various other properties
like the resulting image and the localized filter name.
So for NSBrowser, you have a parent
item for the next column.
So, and in that column has, however many children are
associated with that parent item and this continues
on down the line, just like when you
turn out a triangle in outline view.
So, your next selected item becomes the
parent for the next columns, children.
And this is a new API that you actually have to implement
and this is the API that we have in our controller class.
So once you implement browser numberOfChildrenOfItem
in your delegate for NSBrowser,
we'll switch over to using that item based API.
We expect you to have all three
of these methods implemented.
So we asked for the number of children of a particular
parent item and in this case we'll just return the count
for the child items then we'll ask for a particular
child of that parent item, a particular child index.
Again, it's real simple.
We just take that item and we get the child items from
it and return back that item, that index in that array.
And then we'll ask for the object value
for that item to put into the cell
and here we'll just use the localized
filter name for that property.
So again, you just hand it back the items that
you've already given to us as we go down the chain.
You can grab your properties out of there.
It works really nicely.
You also notice that these methods are
really, really simple and unlike outline view
that we're not worrying about nil
as some of you might remember.
Because by default, just like outline
view, the initial parent item is nil.
And you can have extra code in your
delegate methods to compensate for that.
So if the parent item is nil, you
know you're on your zero-width column.
Well, in browser we've added an optional delegate method
that you can implement that we will actually ask you
for that root item and that's what
we did in our controllers.
We've implemented this so we've
created our first child item.
We supply that as the route browser, the route, excuse
me, the root item for the browser using this delegate API.
And, so we know that we're never going to be given a nil
to start off with and it cleaned up all that extra code
that we would have had it do to make special case for nil.
We load our root item lazily so we
wait until the controller is loaded
and the browser is actually trying to display something.
So if we don't already have one, we'll
go ahead and create our filter item.
Once we have a filter item, we'll
just return our root item from there.
You may also be asked if an item is a leaf item and
what a leaf item means is it doesn't have any children
and it can't have any children and you may
potentially wanted to show a preview column.
This is our implementation.
The method is browser isLeaf of Item, I'm sorry
is browser isLeafItem item and we just return
if the child items for our item are counted zero.
Now, it works great for this sample application
because there's only one item, the non-filter
and it doesn't have any children
obviously, so it's the leaf item.
If you're doing a directory hierarchy, for example,
you might have an empty folder that can have children.
It just happens to have no children, so you need to
have the right kind of logic for your application here.
And so along with these new delegate APIs,
we have some new APIs on NSBrowser itself
to help you get it some different
things and here is one of them.
Parent for items in column.
So when the columns are changing, we needed to
hook up the sourceImage from one column to--
the resulting image from one column to the sourceImage of
the next column so we could chain our filters together,
and so we do that by getting the
parent item for that particular column.
So we know which columns are changing, we
can get the parent item for that column
and we have been using the item-based API to do this,
and we can get the parent item for the previous column
and we can go ahead and bind the resulting image from
the previous to the sourceImage of the current column.
So you have some column and for example
column 1 and there was the parent item
and that is what I was talking about earlier.
So you can always get the parent
item for a particular column number
and there is the short version of
the API parent for item and column.
So we're going to move on to the custom header
views and they turn out to be really easy to use.
This is incredibly simple.
This is great, I love this.
And it's all based on the view controller and then you
have your view controller and your view controller is going
to load a NIB and that NIB defines what
goes into the header for that column.
So, view controllers have a represented object and
we'll automatically going to set the represented object
to the parent for that column and in this case, our
represented object has all sorts of nice nifty properties
because it's the AT filter item such as the input
values and the resultingImage and the sourceImage.
So, all you have to do is you go into Interface Builder
when you're setting up your NIB for your view controller
and you could bind all your various properties to your
represented object, in case we're binding the image there
to the representatedobject.resultingNSIimage.
And so now, the sliders are going to work and
because they're bound to the input min and max values
so they get the right range for the particular
filter and they have the current value
and they'll automatically enable and disable themselves.
And that's all you have to do and here's our implementation
and the delegate method is browser
headerViewControllerForItem.
We just go ahead and create a standard view
controller, that's all we needed in this case,
and we need it with our NIB that
we wanted for our header column
and we return that for each column that is not a leaf.
We return that for every time we're asked for a
header view column and we wanted them to be the same.
If you don't want a header view in a
particular column, you can just return nil.
If you want different header columns for different items
where you're given the item, you can inspect the item
and decide to return a different view
controller or just load in a different NIB
if you're using the standard view controller.
And that's it.
That's all you have to do and preview
works exactly the same way.
If it's a leaf item, we might go ahead ask
you for the previewViewControllerForLeafItem.
So if you implement this delegate method,
you can return your own view controller there
and you can have your different NIBS
for different items or you return nil
if an item doesn't have a preview column associated with it.
So, that was the end of our implementation of
the things that we've done with the sample code
and here's a few more additional APIs
that I want to go ahead and cover.
We don't allow any setting of the object
values but this is one of the new things
that you can do with the item-based APIs.
You can actually do in-cell editing, so if you
have it turned on, you can double-click the item,
the cell and modify the change there and so browser will
call back your delegate items, setObjectValue:ForItem
and you can also modify the height
of each row in each column.
So, here's a delegate method for that where
we will ask you for the height of each row.
And finally, we want to look at
how you can get your selection.
It turns out that, you know, in column 0 you might have item
4 selected and in the next column, you have row 1 selected
and in the final column you have row 0 selected, and this
looks a lot like an NSIndexPath and well, so we go ahead
and we allow you to get and set the selection
based on the index path, create an index path
and you could set the selection that
way and we'll fill out all the columns,
or you can get what the current selection index path is.
Of course, you might have more than one item
selected in your last column and if that's the case,
you can get an array selection index paths or you can even
set an array of index paths with setSelectionIndexPaths.
Its important that on the array of index paths that only
the last item in the index path changes for each item--
for each index path in the array and we check for that
because you can only have a multiple
selection in the last column.
So sometimes it gets-- you'll need to know what a particular
item is in a particular row in a particular column
and so there's a couple of different
ways of determining that.
>> The first way is you might just say, "Well, I know
the index path, so give me the item at that index path."
And so, you can really ask for that item at index path or
you might know the particular row and the particular column
which some of the other API that were always-- we've
already given you back, you can just simply ask item
at row and column and we will hand that to you.
[ Pause ]
>> So, if you want to reload the children of a particular
column, we made it real simple for you to do that
and you can just call reloadItem if you already
know the item and we'll reload just that items
and we prepare the cell and we put the values
there or you can reload a whole particular column,
you just provide us with the column number and if you
try maintain selection and if you reload columns there
on the selection changes, we will go ahead do the
right thing and wipe out all the other columns for you.
And that's pretty much the end of the new API browsers,
real simple to use and it's pretty straightforward.
If you know NSOutlineView you'll be a step ahead in using
this API because they're very similar and I just want
to point out that finder as you know is now Cocoa
based and so this gives you the power to do everything
that they're doing in the browser view
mode and finder with the header columns
and the preview columns and it works really great.
So, we're going to bring Corbin back
up to go ahead and close this out.
[ Applause ]
>> So, we had a good talk about subclassing, enhancing
table view, talking about the batch load with cell contents,
add subviews, doing custom cell editors, creating custom
animations from one table view location to an image view,
creating the pop-up animation and Raleigh just finished
talking about the new NSBrowser Snow Leopard APIs.
What we encourage you to do is to take that sample code,
download it, play with it, reuse it, figure it out...